# Privacy Policy

> You don't have to take our word on all of this. Telegram is an open source
project. Anyone can study our [API](https://core.telegram.org/api),
[Protocol](https://core.telegram.org/mtproto) and [Source Code](/apps#source-
code) and make an informed decision.

### __1\. Sharing data

We never share your data with anyone. No.

### __2\. Storing data

Telegram only stores the data it needs to function properly — for as long as
you want Telegram to function.

##### __Cloud Chats

Telegram is a cloud service. We store messages, photos, videos and documents
from your _cloud chats_ on our servers, so that you can access your data from
any of your devices anytime and use our instant server search to quickly
access your messages from waaay back. All data is stored heavily encrypted and
the encryption keys in each case are stored in several other DCs in different
jurisdictions. This way local engineers or physical intruders cannot get
access to user data.

##### __Secret Chats

_Secret chats_ use end-to-end encryption. This means that all data is
encrypted with a key that only you and the recipient know. There is **no way**
for us or anybody else without direct access to your device to learn what
content is being sent in those messages. We do not store your secret chats on
our servers. We also do not keep any logs for messages in secret chats, so
after a short period of time we no longer know who or when you messaged via
secret chats. For the same reasons secret chats are not available in the cloud
— you can only access those messages from the device they were sent _to_ or
_from_.

##### __Media in Secret Chats

When you send photos, videos or files via secret chats, before being uploaded
each item is encrypted with a separate key, not known to the server. This key
and the file’s location are then encrypted again, this time with the secret
chat’s key — and sent to your recipient. He can then download and decipher the
file. This means that the file is technically on one of Telegram’s servers,
but it looks like a piece of random indecipherable garbage to everyone except
for you and the recipient. We don’t know what this random data stands for and
we have no idea which particular chat it belongs to. We periodically purge
this random data from our servers to save disk space.

##### __Contacts

Telegram uses phone numbers as unique identifiers, so that it is easy for you
to switch from other messaging apps (SMS, WhatsApp, etc.) and retain your
social graph. We ask your permission before syncing your contacts.

We store your contacts in order to notify you as soon as one of your contacts
signs up for Telegram and to properly display names in notifications. We only
need the number and name (first and last) for this to work and store no other
data about your contacts.

##### __Your e-mail address

When you enable 2-step-verification for your account, you can opt to set up a
password recovery email. This address will only be used to send you a password
recovery code, if you forget it. That's right: no marketing or “we miss you”
bullshit.

### __3\. Deleting data

##### __Accounts

If you would like to delete your account, you can do this on the [deactivation
page](https://telegram.org/deactivate). Deleting your account permanently
removes all your **messages**, **groups** and **contacts**. This action must
be confirmed via your Telegram account and cannot be undone.

##### __Messages

Everything you delete is deleted forever. Except for cats.  
We never delete your funny cat pictures, we love them too much.

When you delete a message, you delete it from your message history. This means
that a copy still stays on the server as part of your partner‘s message
history. As soon as your partner deletes it too, it’s gone forever. Telegram
is a non-commercial project and we value the disk space on our servers
greatly.

#### __Self-destructing messages

Messages in Secret Chats can be ordered to [self-destruct](/faq#q-how-do-self-
destructing-messages-work). As soon as such a message is [read](/faq#q-what-
do-the-green-checks-mean) (2 checks appear), the countdown starts. When the
time is out, both devices participating in a secret chat are instructed to
delete the message (photo, video, etc.).

#### __Account self-destruction

Telegram is not a commercial organization and we value our disk space greatly.
If you stop using Telegram and do not login for at least 6 months, your
account will be deleted along with all messages, media, contacts and every
other piece of data you store in the Telegram cloud. You can change the exact
period after which your inactive account will self-destruct in Settings.

This feature was introduced on November 19, 2014. Since the default self-
destruct setting for Telegram accounts is 6 months, accounts that have last
been active before November 19, 2014 self-destructed in May, 2015.

